doc: add KIC 2.6 and Kong 3.x controller guide (#4444)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/kubernetes-ingress-controller/guides/upgrade-kong-3x.md

				}
		}
}'
```

If you use a non-standard namespace or Ingress class, you will need to
replace the `kong` Ingress class name and `kong` namespace with values
appropriate to your environment.

After you have upgraded to Kong 3.x, update all of your regular expression paths 
to include the `~` prefix in the Ingress itself at your earliest convenience. 
The heuristic is only intended for decreasing downtime during upgrades, so 
it behaves exactly like the version included in Kong 2.8.x, bugs
included. Once you added the prefix to all regular expression paths, you can
disable `enableLegacyRegexDetection`.

Gateway API HTTPRoute resources are not affected by this problem. They
do have a dedicated regular expression path type, and KIC inserts the `~`
prefix automatically for these.

## Testing environment

To avoid issues with the upgrade, run it in a test environment before
deploying it to production. Create a [Kubernetes][k8s] cluster
using the same tools that deployed your production cluster, or use
a local development cluster such as [minikube][minikube] or [kind][kind].

Using Helm, check the deployed chart version:

{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Command %}

```shell

> $ helm list -A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm list -A
```

---
title: Upgrading to Kong 3.x
---

This guide walks through the steps needed to upgrade to 2.1.x and later
versions from earlier versions, and covers changes from older versions to help
operators evaluate whether they need to make changes to their configuration. It

> also covers creation of a testing environment to test the upgrade.

Author: Yep.

by 2.6 changes. You should still review these changes for changes that do not
interact with KIC, such as changes to kong.conf/environment variable settings
and changes to the PDK that affect custom plugins.

Kong 3.x's changes to regular expression path handling _do_ require manual
changes to Ingress configuration. In Kong 2.x, Kong applied a heuristic based
on the presence of special characters in a route path to determine if a path
was a regular expression. This heuristic was imperfect and Kong 3.x has
removed it, instead requiring that any regular expression begin with a `~`
prefix.

Ingress rule paths have no way to indicate that a path is a regular expression.
The `ImplementationSpecific` path type can contain either regular expression or
non-regular expression paths. If you have existing Ingresses with regular
expression paths, those paths will no longer be routed correctly if you upgrade
to 3.x without updating configuration.

The preferred option for configuring regular expression Ingress rules for Kong
3.x is to add the `~` prefix to Ingress rules directly. However, this is not
compatible with Kong 2.x, and therefore cannot be easily done prior to the 3.x

> upgrade.

Author: I do want to stress that `enableLegacyRegexDetection` isn't intended to be a long-term solution and that this (adding the prefix yourself) is what you need to do eventually up front. Is there some better way to note that before the paragraph after ("After you have upgraded to Kong 3.x, update all of your regular expression paths...") about it?

heuristic on KIC's end: if the option is enabled, the Kong version is 3.0 or
higher,  and a path matches the 2.x heuristic, KIC will insert the `~` prefix
for you unless the path already begins with `~`. This allows for a mixture of
paths that have and have not been migrated to 3.x-style configuration.

To enable this option, you need to create an IngressClassParameters resource
with `enableLegacyRegexDetection=true` and attach it to your IngressClass. The
option _is not_ enabled for IngressClasses by default.

```bash
echo '
apiVersion: configuration.konghq.com/v1alpha1
kind: IngressClassParameters
metadata:
  name: 2x-heuristic
spec:
  enableLegacyRegexDetection: true
' | kubectl apply -n kong -f -
```

```bash
kubectl patch ingressclass kong --patch '
{"spec":
		{"parameters":
				{
				"apiGroup": "configuration.konghq.com",
				"kind": "IngressClassParameters",
				"name": "2x-heuristic",
				"namespace": "kong",
				"scope": "Namespace"
				}
		}
}'
```

If you use a non-standard namespace and/or ingress class, you will need to
replace the `kong` ingress class name and `kong` namespace with values
appropriate to your environment.

> After you have upgraded to Kong 3.x, you should work to update all of your
> regular expression paths to include the `~` prefix in the Ingress itself at
> your earliest convenience. The heuristic is available for upgrade convenience
> and thus behaves exactly like the version included in Kong 2.8.x, bugs
> included. Once you added the prefix to all regular expression paths, you can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have upgraded to Kong 3.x, update all of your regular expression paths 
to include the `~` prefix in the Ingress itself at your earliest convenience. 
The heuristic is only intended for decreasing downtime during upgrades, so 
it behaves exactly like the version included in Kong 2.8.x, bugs
included. Once you added the prefix to all regular expression paths, you can
```

disable `enableLegacyRegexDetection`.

> Lastly, Gateway API HTTPRoute resources are not affected by this problem: they
> do have a dedicated regular expression path type, and KIC does insert the `~`
> prefix automatically for these.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gateway API HTTPRoute resources are not affected by this problem. They
do have a dedicated regular expression path type, and KIC inserts the `~`
prefix automatically for these.
```

## Testing environment

To avoid issues with the upgrade, run it in a test environment before
deploying it to production. Create a [Kubernetes][k8s] cluster
using the same tools that deployed your production cluster, or use
a local development cluster such as [minikube][minikube] or [kind][kind].

Using Helm, check the deployed chart version:

{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Command %}

```shell
$ helm list -A
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Response %}

```shell
NAME               NAMESPACE   STATUS   CHART       APP VERSION
ingress-controller kong-system deployed kong-2.13.0 2.6
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

In the above example, `kong-2.13.0` is the currently deployed chart version.

Using the existing chart version and the `values.yaml` configuration for
your production environment, deploy a copy to your test cluster
with the `--version` flag:

```shell

> $ helm install kong-upgrade-testing kong/kong \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm install kong-upgrade-testing kong/kong \
```

  --version ${YOUR_VERSION} \
  -f ${PATH_TO_YOUR_VALUES_FILE}
```

> > **Note:** You may need to adjust your chart further to work in a development or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

{:.note}
> **Note:** You may need to adjust your chart further to work in a development or
```

staging environment. See the [Helm chart documentation][chart-docs].
Use this testing environment to walk through the following
[upgrade steps](#upgrade) and ensure there are no problems during the
upgrade process. Once you're satisfied everything is ready,
switch to the production cluster and work through the upgrade steps again.

[k8s]:https://kubernetes.io
[minikube]:https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube
[kind]:https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind
[chart-docs]: https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts/

## Upgrade

### Configure Helm repository

Check the local `helm` installation to make sure it has the
[Kong Charts Repository][chart] loaded:

{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Command %}

```shell
helm repo list
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Response %}

```shell
NAME    URL
kong    https://charts.konghq.com
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

If the repository is not present, add it:

```shell

> $ helm repo add kong https://charts.konghq.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm repo add kong https://charts.konghq.com
```

```

Update the repository to pull the latest repository updates:

{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Command %}

```shell
helm repo update
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Response %}

```
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "kong" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

### Perform the upgrade

Run the following command, specifying the old release name, the namespace where
you've configured {{site.base_gateway}}, and the existing `values.yaml` configuration file:

```shell

> $ helm upgrade ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAME} kong/kong \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm upgrade ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAME} kong/kong \
```

  --namespace ${YOUR_NAMESPACE} \
  -f ${PATH_TO_YOUR_VALUES_FILE} \
  --set image.tag="3.0"
```

> After the upgrade completes there is a brief period of time before the new

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the upgrade completes, there is a brief period of time before the new
```

resources are online. You can wait for the relevant Pod resources to complete
by watching them in your release namespace:

```shell

> $ kubectl -n ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAMESPACE} get pods -w

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl -n ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAMESPACE} get pods -w
```

```

Once the new pods are in a `Ready` state, the upgrade is complete. Update your

> values.yaml file to use the new Kong and ingress controller image versions to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`values.yaml` file to use the new Kong and ingress controller image versions to
```

continue using these through future upgrades.

### Rollback

If you run into problems during or after the upgrade, Helm provides a
rollback mechanism to revert to a previous revision of the release:

```shell

> $ helm rollback --namespace ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAMESPACE} ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAME}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm rollback --namespace ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAMESPACE} ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAME}
```

```

You can wait for the rollback to complete by watching the relevant Pod
resources:

```shell

> $ kubectl -n ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAMESPACE} get pods -w

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl -n ${YOUR_RELEASE_NAMESPACE} get pods -w
```
